In the previous video, we already learn about
what is IP Address and what is the function of an IP Address.
Now, in this video we are going to learn
how to download and install Cisco Packet Tracer.
As I mention in the previous video, Cisco
Packet tracer is a network simulation tools
that help us to learn about computer network
without have a real devices.
Okay let’s start.
To download cisco packet tracer, we need to
create a NetAcad Account first.
Just go to google and type NetAcad Packet
Tracer like this.
Here we can see Introduction to Packet Tracer,
click here.
Actually this is free course about Introduction
to Packet Tracer from Cisco Netacad.
And we need to enroll at least one course
from Cisco Netacad to download Cisco Packet Tracer.
So let’s just sign up here.
Here we need to fill our first name, last
name, and email address.
Let’s just fill it
Here we can choose, do we want to receive
an update from cisco or no.
I chose no here.
Then here we need to verify that we are 13
years old or more.
And if we are in the Europe, we need to verify
that we are 16 years old or more.
Let’s just mark this.
We also need to solve a captcha here to verify
that we are not a robot.
Here 2 plus 7 is 9.
Okay now let’s submit this form
After submitting the form, we will need to
fill another form.
I am in Indonesia right now. The company is
self, and we need to type our password and
confirm password here.
We also need to solve another captcha here,
but I don’t sure what is this,
so let’s refresh the captcha.
Okay this is much easier, here we have 9 6
5 4 8 2.
“What do you like to update about cisco
promotion, product, and services?”
Here I choose no, because i don’t want to
receive any promotions from Cisco.
And finally register.
Wait for a seconds here.
Okay we have done now, let’s login using
an email and password that we use when sign up.
And then, we need to verify our email, Cisco
already send a verification code to our email.
So let’s just check it.
Here I check on my inbox and refresh it.
But I still haven’t receive the email.
Let’s refresh one more time.
Okay I still don’t receive the email yet.
If you receive the email, you can just verify
the email, but if you don’t, we can skip
the verification for now.
Here we can choose skip.
After login, we need one more form to fill.
Choose the gender, I live in Indonesia, and
the state is Jakarta.
My experience in networking is 3 to 5 years.
I don’t have any disability, and this is
my birth day.
Now let’s create an account.
We have done!
Just close this.
To download cisco packet, we can go to resources
and then download Packet Tracer.
Here in the download section, we can download
based on our operating system,
In this case I use Mac, so I will download for Mac OS,
If you use windows download the windows version,
or if you use linux, just download the linux
version.
I will speed up the video until the download
is finish.
Okay the download is finish.
Now I will show you how to install Cisco Packet
Tracer on MAC. If you use windows, the installation
process will be much easier, you just need
to open the installer
and choose next next next until finish.
Okay now let’s see how we can install Cisco
Packet Tracer on MAC.
Let’s go to the finder, and double click
the installer.
Continue, accept, continue,
Let’s wait for a seconds,
Okay we need to type our laptop password here.
Okay we have done the installation of Cisco
Packet Tracer. Just close this. Now let’s open the packet tracer
Here we can see that we have packet tracer
version 7.3, let’s open this.
We need to login. We can use an email and
password that we use when signup to Netacad.
We need to verify our email address here,
but because my email is not verified yet.
I will skip this for now.
But I suggest you to verify your email if
you already receive the email from cisco NetAcad.
Okay now we have successfully download & install
Cisco Packet Tracer.
In the next video, we are going to practice
the most simple computer network in Cisco Packet Tracer.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!